First aproach to Gong&Compose architecture documentation (#172)
xmartlabs/gong: README.md

So all actions can be managed from the same place.
With the channel, each event is delivered to a single subscriber.
An attempt to post an event without subscribers will suspend as soon as the channel buffer becomes full, waiting for a subscriber to appear. Posted events are never dropped by default.
Then to handle this Ui effects "oneSHotEvents" are used. Because Channels are hot and it is not necessary to show side effect again when orientation changed or UI become visible again.

<p align="center">
  <img src="/images/OneToManyChannel.png">
</p>

Example:
```
class ExampleViewModel {
    private val oneShotEventsChannel = Channel<OneShotEvent>()
    val oneShotEvents = oneShotEventsChannel.receiveAsFlow() // expose as flow

    suspend fun sendOneShotEvent(event: OneShotEvent) {
        oneShotEventsChannel.send(event) // suspends on buffer overflow
    }
}
```
```
class ExampleScreen {
    .
    .
    LaunchedEffect(null) {      // this: coroutine
        exampleViewModel.oneShotEvents
            .onEach { event ->
              when (event) {
                //Do something according to each event
              }
            }
    }

> }

Reviewer: What do you think about talking about an example, just telling it, and then we can show the login action but maybe in another document?

We're using "clean architecture" to structure, decouple, expand, and maintain the code.

## Architecture
There are 4 layers within the application:
- Domain layer - contains high-level abstraction of the application domain (like repositories, data access) and the use cases, which contain all of the application's business logic & domain rules.
- Data layer - implements domain layer abstractions, the `DataSources`, related to data persistence, REST calls, etc. 
- Device layer - implements domain layer abstractions that are not related to data persistence or user interface but are specific to the android platform: android services, cloud messaging, and many others.

> - Presentation (UI) layer - all the functionality related to the Android user interface: Composables.

Reviewer: Maybe sonething like
```suggestion
- Presentation (UI) layer - all the functionality related to the Android user interface: built on top of [Jetpack Compose](https://developer.android.com/jetpack/compose).
```

Reviewer: what about this one?

<p align="center">
  <img height="250" src="/images/arch.png" >
</p>

## Overview

> In order to understand how all this work together, it's important to talk about each component role inside presentation layer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to understand how all this work together, it's important to talk about each component role inside the presentation layer.
```

> First of all, the architecture used is MVI, but in many ways it's a merging of MVI and Redux.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First of all, the architecture used is a merge between MVI and Redux.
```
Maybe something like this? i think that if it is in many ways a merge between mvi and redux we can just say that, what do you think?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
First of all, the architecture. It's a combination of the MVI and Redux patterns.
```
Something like that maybe?

> First of all, the architecture used is MVI, but in many ways it's a merging of MVI and Redux.

Reviewer: maybe a link talking about MVI, some blog or an interesting place to take a look at it

> The MVI pattern pre-defines a selection of events the ViewModel handles and the view publishes a stream of these events as they happen, so the viewModel can communicate back to the view with a single object defining the entire state of the view.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The MVI pattern pre-defines a selection of events the ViewModel handles and the view publishes a stream of these events as they happen, so the ViewModel can communicate back to the view with a single object defining the entire state of the view.
```

Reviewer: Intents or actions instead of events? 
I think it's more clear, because the view send actions to the view model
And the view model communicates the results via the ViewModel state and one shot events

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The MVI pattern pre-defines a selection of events the `ViewModel` handles and the view publishes a stream of these events as they happen, so the viewModel can communicate back to the view with a single object defining the entire state of the view.
```
Maybe add something about MVI making the flow of data one sided (from the ViewModel to the view) and creating a single source of truth

> The Redux pattern comes up at this point. Redux is a pattern and library for managing and updating application state, using events called "actions". In gong the composables communicate actions to the viewModels so they can manage and emit the state back to view. This ensure state can only be updated in a predictable way.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Redux pattern comes up at this point. Redux is a pattern and library for managing and updating application state, using events called "actions". In gong the composables communicate actions to the ViewModels so they can manage and emit the state back to view. This ensure state can only be updated in a predictable way.
```

Reviewer: pattern and library -> Framework?

Reviewer: I'd maybe talk about the reducer, the reducer tasks the usecase response and converts it to the app state.

> To continue with the insight of the project, let's see how this is done.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To continue with the insight of the project, let's see how this is done:
```

With the shared flow, actions are broadcast to an unknown number (zero or more) of subscribers. In the absence of a subscriber, any posted action is immediately dropped. It is a design pattern to use for actions that must be processed immediately or not at all.

> The viewModel handle each action in the processAction method. Whenever an action is added to the "contract", it also has to be added here. So all actions can be managed from the same place.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The ViewModel handle each action in the `processAction` method. Whenever an action is added to the "contract", it also has to be added here. So all actions can be managed from the same place.
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The viewModel handles each action in the processAction method. Whenever an action is added to the "contract", it also has to be added here. So all actions can be managed from the same place.
```

With the channel, each event is delivered to a single subscriber. An attempt to post an event without subscribers will suspend as soon as the channel buffer becomes full, waiting for a subscriber to appear. Posted events are never dropped by default.

> Finally, for handling UiState, StateFlow is used. StateFlow is just like LiveData but have initial value. So a state is always present. It's also a kind of SharedFlow. It's always expected to receive last view state when UI become visible.

Reviewer: I'd add liinks
```suggestion
Finally, for handling UiState, `StateFlow` is used. `StateFlow` is just like `LiveData`, they are state holders, but have an initial value. So a state is always present. It's always expected to receive the last view state when UI become visible.
```

<p align="center">
  <img src="/images/GongMainV2Arq.png">
</p>

Now, as a way to give you an overview of the other layers and how the interaction with the presentation layer is done, let's review it's components.

> To the presentation layer, the useCases are the ones who resolve each request from the UI, and they both interact using coroutine library.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To the presentation layer, the UseCases are the ones who resolve each request from the UI, and they both interact using coroutine library.
```

Reviewer: the use case don't receive the request from the UI, the VM takes the view actions and invokes a usces to perform the action

> A useCase is a reusable component that might be used from different VMs. Same goes for Repositories, a repository can stand on its own without the vm and be re-used from other places. All these classes exist with a clear goal and purpose. The logic is split sensibly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A UseCase is a reusable component that might be used from different ViewModels. Same goes for Repositories, a repository can stand on its own without the ViewModel and be re-used from other places. All these classes exist with a clear goal and purpose. The logic is split sensibly.
```
i think it is better to stick with the same word for all the text either we use ViewModel or we first state ViewModel (VM) and after that we use just VM

Repositories have the function of communication between Domain Layer and Data Layer. More precisely, with coroutines help, they have to implement the necessary logic so they can call Remote and Local sources methods.

> At the end of the chain, as mentioned, Data Layer is found. It is responsible for persisting and obtaining all the data required for the model. The remote sources are the ones who manage interaction with the different endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the end of the chain, as mentioned, Data Layer is found. It is responsible for persisting and obtaining all the data required for the model using different sources. The remote sources are the ones who manage interaction with the different endpoints.
```

The local sources manage data base logic.

> The core libraries for the communication between layer components are: [**StateFlow**](https://developer.android.com/kotlin/flow/stateflow-and-sharedflow), used to communicate data view state back to the view and [**Coroutines**](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/reference/coroutines-overview.html), used to perform all background tasks.

Reviewer: shared flow is not a library, coroutines is the library

## Core Libraries

> The main libraries that we are using are:

Reviewer: I'd add Jetpack compose here, it's one of the most important libraries

- [Android Architecture Components - Jetpack](https://developer.android.com/topic/libraries/architecture):

>   - [StateFlow](https://developer.android.com/kotlin/flow/stateflow-and-sharedflow) which is a state-holder observable flow that emits the current and new state updates to its collectors.

Reviewer: same, shared flow is not a library
```suggestion
```

We're using "clean architecture" to structure, decouple, expand, and maintain the code.

## Architecture
There are 4 layers within the application:
- Domain layer - contains high-level abstraction of the application domain (like repositories, data access) and the use cases, which contain all of the application's business logic & domain rules.
- Data layer - implements domain layer abstractions, the `DataSources`, related to data persistence, REST calls, etc. 
- Device layer - implements domain layer abstractions that are not related to data persistence or user interface but are specific to the android platform: android services, cloud messaging, and many others.
- Presentation (UI) layer - all the functionality related to the Android user interface: Composables.

<p align="center">
  <img height="250" src="/images/arch.png" >
</p>

## Overview

> In order to understand how all this work together, it's important to talk about each component role inside the Cpresentation layer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to understand how all these work together, it's important to talk about each component's role inside the presentation layer.
```

> First of all, the architecture. It's a combination of the MVI and Redux patterns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First of all, the architecture. It's a combination of the MVI and Redux architecture patterns.
```

> The MVI patter has three main components: Intent, Model, and View.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The MVI pattern has three main components: Intent, Model, and View.
```

> The intent refers to the intention of change the state of the app, so in Gong case it would be the actions, delivered then to viewModel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The intent refers to the intention to change the state of the app, so in Gong's case, it would be the actions, delivered then to ViewModel.
```

> ViewModel represents the model component of the pattern. It is responsible of creation of a new state, which is an immutable data structure.

Reviewer: Model represents a state, so should we use represents or holds the model?

> At any given moment, there is just one state in the app, which represent a single source of truth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At any given moment, there is just one state in the app, which represents a single source of truth.
```

Reviewer: just one or only once?

The only way to change the state is to create a new one, triggered by the actions. But when and how is the new state created?
The Redux pattern comes up at this point. Redux is a pattern and library for managing and updating application state, using events called "actions".
More precisely, the main components of Redux are State, Action, and Reducer.
In Gong the composables communicate actions to the viewModels so they can manage and emit the state back to view.
This ensure state can only be updated in a predictable way.
Then, inside the model, the reducer is called with a proper action and the latest state and forward its result as an output value of the model.

> Reducer is a function that takes the previous state and action and creates a new state, and in Gong this role is played by the function ‘processAction’, located in viewModels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reducer is a function that takes the previous state and action and creates a new state, and in Gong this role is played by the function `processAction`, located in viewModels.
```

To continue with the insight of the project, let's see how this is done.
With the shared flow, actions are broadcast to an unknown number (zero or more) of subscribers.
In the absence of a subscriber, any posted action is immediately dropped. It is a design pattern to use for actions that must be processed immediately or not at all.

> The viewModel handles each action in the ‘processAction’ method. Whenever an action is added to the "contract", it also has to be added here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The viewModel handles each action in the `processAction` method. Whenever an action is added to the "contract", it also has to be added here.
```

So all actions can be managed from the same place.
With the channel, each event is delivered to a single subscriber.
An attempt to post an event without subscribers will suspend as soon as the channel buffer becomes full, waiting for a subscriber to appear. Posted events are never dropped by default.

> Then to handle this Ui effects "oneSHotEvents" are used. Because Channels are hot and it is not necessary to show side effect again when orientation changed or UI become visible again.

Reviewer: we can maybe add an example, what do you think? To display an error or manage a redirection

> Finally, for handling UiState, StateFlow is used. StateFlow is just like LiveData but have initial value. So a state is always present.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, for handling `UiState`, `StateFlow` is used.
`StateFlow` is a state-holder observable flow that emits the current and new state updates to its collectors, similar to a `LiveData` but with an initial value.
So a state is always present.
```

It's also a kind of SharedFlow. It's always expected to receive last view state when UI become visible.

<p align="center">
  <img src="/images/GongMainV2Arq.png">
</p>

Now, as a way to give you an overview of the other layers and how the interaction with the presentation layer is done, let's review it's components.

> To the presentation layer, the UseCases are the ones who resolve each invocation from the ViewModels, and they both interact using coroutine library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To the presentation layer, the `UseCases` are the ones who resolve each invocation from the ViewModels, and they both interact using coroutines library.
```

Reviewer: maybe a link of coroutines

> A UseCase is a reusable component that might be used from different ViewModels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `UseCase` is a reusable component that might be used from different `ViewModels`.
```

> Same goes for Repositories, a repository can stand on its own without the vm and be re-used from other places.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same goes for `Repositories`, a repository can stand on its own without the VM and be re-used from other places.
```

All these classes exist with a clear goal and purpose. The logic is split sensibly.
Repositories have the function of communication between Domain Layer and Data Layer.
More precisely, with coroutines help, they have to implement the necessary logic so they can call Remote and Local sources methods.

At the end of the chain, as mentioned, Data Layer is found. It is responsible for persisting and obtaining all the data required for the model using different sources.
The remote sources are the ones who manage interaction with the different endpoints.

> The local sources manage data base logic.

Reviewer: I'd add that the repositories use the store library to combine the different sources

We're using "clean architecture" to structure, decouple, expand, and maintain the code.

## Architecture
There are 4 layers within the application:
- Domain layer - contains high-level abstraction of the application domain (like repositories, data access) and the use cases, which contain all of the application's business logic & domain rules.
- Data layer - implements domain layer abstractions, the `DataSources`, related to data persistence, REST calls, etc. 
- Device layer - implements domain layer abstractions that are not related to data persistence or user interface but are specific to the android platform: android services, cloud messaging, and many others.
- Presentation (UI) layer - all the functionality related to the Android user interface: Composables.

<p align="center">
  <img height="250" src="/images/arch.png" >
</p>

## Overview
In order to understand how this work together, it's important to talk about each component's role inside the presentation layer.

> First of all, the architecture. It's a combination of the MVI and Redux architecture patterns.

Reviewer: maybe we can say that when we use jetpack compose, it's convenient to use an architecture based on an state. In our case, we choose a combination of e MVI and Redux.

More precisely, the main components of Redux are State, Action, and Reducer.
In Gong the composables communicate actions to the viewModels so they can manage and emit the state back to view.
This ensure state can only be updated in a predictable way.
Then, inside the model, the reducer is called with a proper action and the latest state and forward its result as an output value of the model.
Reducer is a function that takes the previous state and action and creates a new state, and in Gong this role is played by the function `processAction`, located in viewModels.

To continue with the insight of the project, let's see how this is done.
With the shared flow, actions are broadcast to an unknown number (zero or more) of subscribers.
In the absence of a subscriber, any posted action is immediately dropped. It is a design pattern to use for actions that must be processed immediately or not at all.

The ViewModel handles each action in the `processAction` method. Whenever an action is added to the "contract", it also has to be added here.
So all actions can be managed from the same place.

> With the channel, each event is delivered to a single subscriber.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the `channel`, each event is delivered to a single subscriber.
```

An attempt to post an event without subscribers will suspend as soon as the channel buffer becomes full, waiting for a subscriber to appear. Posted events are never dropped by default.

> Then to handle this Ui effects "oneSHotEvents" are used. Because Channels are hot and it is not necessary to show side effect again when orientation changed or UI become visible again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then to handle this Ui effects "oneShotEvents" are used. Because Channels are hot and it is not necessary to show side effect again when orientation changed or UI become visible again.
```

> Then to handle this Ui effects "oneSHotEvents" are used. Because Channels are hot and it is not necessary to show side effect again when orientation changed or UI become visible again.

Reviewer: Not sure about effects, it's not only effects, are navigations, alerts, all things that should be displayed only once

Finally, for handling `UiState`, `StateFlow` is used.
`StateFlow` is a state-holder observable flow that emits the current and new state updates to its collectors, similar to a `LiveData` but with an initial value.
So a state is always present.
It's also a kind of SharedFlow. It's always expected to receive last view state when UI become visible.

Gong's Workflow example:

<p align="center">
  <img height="250" src="/images/workFlow.png" >
</p>

> 

Reviewer: maybe add a subtitle

Now, as a way to give you an overview of the other layers and how the interaction with the presentation layer is done, let's review it's components.

To the presentation layer, the `UseCases` are the ones who resolve each invocation from the ViewModels, and they both interact using [coroutines](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/reference/coroutines-overview.html) library.
A `UseCase` is a reusable component that might be used from different `ViewModels`.

> The same goes for `Repositories`, a repository can stand on its own without the ViewModel and be re-used from other places.

Reviewer: repositories are used only by use cases

The Redux pattern comes up at this point. Redux is a pattern and library for managing and updating application state, using events called "actions".
More precisely, the main components of Redux are State, Action, and Reducer.
In Gong the composables communicate actions to the viewModels so they can manage and emit the state back to view.
This ensure state can only be updated in a predictable way.
Then, inside the model, the reducer is called with a proper action and the latest state and forward its result as an output value of the model.
Reducer is a function that takes the previous state and action and creates a new state, and in Gong this role is played by the function `processAction`, located in viewModels.

To continue with the insight of the project, let's see how this is done.
With the shared flow, actions are broadcast to an unknown number (zero or more) of subscribers.
In the absence of a subscriber, any posted action is immediately dropped. It is a design pattern to use for actions that must be processed immediately or not at all.

<p align="center">

>   <img src="/images/SharedFlow.png">

Reviewer: what do you think of adding something more representative to display the flow? I don't know, the user clicks something and generates an action it's processed and.... maybe we can discuss it
